Digital Geographies Business Meeting Agenda
11:50 am
Endymion, Sheraton, 8th Floor

Attendance 
Jim Thatcher-
Nick Lally- 
Matt Zook- incoming vice chair 
Ludovico Bella 
Meghan Cope 
Emma Slager
Craig Dalton 
Will Payne - Student board
Taylor Shelton 
Ofurhe Igbinedion
And other who I missed I’m sorry please fill in your name… 

1. Chairperson’s Report
a. Sessions Sponsored
46 sessions and key note and pre conf. with Craig. 




b. Pre-Conference Sponsored
35 attendees with the pre conf. 
 Critical GIS Mapping workshop… helped with critical mapping
c. Keynote Panel


d. Reception
Our one expenditure, co-sponsors with Big data and society. 
7pm ish… start 

2. Financial Report
a. Dues collected
178 member $925 in dues.. 
Students have $1 fee, faculty is $10 

b. Money spent
$420 on the reception, keeping over 50% in reserve for awards for grad students.. And whatever we decide. 
We put up the money for the pre conference, but Craig will reimburse us. 

c. Current balance
$926- 420? March 31st balance 

3. New Officers Announced
Drumroll… thanks Nick 

Matt Zook- Vice Chair 
Heather- Sec Tres. 
Meghan Cope- board member 
Will Payne and Emma Slager- Student chairs 
Need members for the committees… awards committee and the reporting committee 
Committee can be any member… can join the board meetings???… 
In the bylaws it says the committee members don't attend board meetings but the advisory council can 
The advisory council- 2 year terms, they don't have a voting position, but can sit in on meetings. 

Reporting committee- prepare the annual report to present at the annual meeting. 

4. Next Year and beyond
Student awards… reserving a table at the award ceremony costs money, but you can give them an award without going to ceremony

Hand out awards during the keynote or during the business meeting. 
Travel awards in addition to students paper awards. 

When you sign up for the group you can donate to the student travel budget… 
$100 travel award?? 

We have a standing awards committee 
Two year term on the award committee… responsible for organizing awards and prizes. 


5. Issues from the floor
How do we decide who wants to be in advisory board…
Email a list of name of people you think should be on the advisory council. We will then do a simple majority vote. We will send out an email to the membership asking for nominations… 
Thinking of asking more senior folks, but anyone can do it. 

The advisory council will also be on a committee… 

Will- Requirements for the wards committee?
Emma- if there are grad students awards there should be faculty judging. 

Matt-faculty members to be on the awards committee, we probably dont have a lot of undergrads interested  in our group. 

Will-if we have an award will they join?

Ofurhe-  Bring people in from outside academica to judge awards. Anyone who wants to submit a participatory mapping project they can win? Grad students is one pool and everyone else is another pool. 

Meghan- the under grads dont have to be aag members in the urban geog. SG 

Matt- How many non- academics would even know about this 

Emma- under grad award, there is no paper component in some classes, can they submit a web portfolio. Design an award around a different product 

Julie- Different kinds of the awards, things you present at the conference and outside the conference like a thesis or dissertation awards 

Meghan- Urban Geog. funds research proposals and final projects. We should look at digital products (duh). Maybe we want to focus more on the products, the maps… 

Jim- a couple hundred bucks in meaningful for grad students, funding research would be cool. 

Jim- Next year when are in DC what do we want to have on our annual report

Heather- we can feasibly give out a few $100-$200 awards.. 

Maybe we can do one research award one travel award?

Other expenditures- party?

Jim- much rather give money to grad students then drinks and food 

Meghan- have one type of award for next year… and start small. 
See how it grows and what is needed. 

$100 for undergrad project/ non student 
2 $250 research proposal awards for grad students

Urban geog. Got 20 submissions for proposal. 

Sophia- are there other outputs from the group? 

Jim- twitter, email list… nothing else at the moment

Matt- proposed a motion for, craig second, motion passed general consensus. 
$100 for undergrad project/ non student 
2 $250 research proposal awards for grad students


Let’s get away from the norm- iron sheep, un-conference, pre-conference things. 


Ofurhe- we need for representation in our group and at AAG
Better gender representation, but not race.
A bummer… last year… was there a talk about the name.. Why don’t we call it critical GIS and why digital Geography. The name can be alienating to people. 

Jim- we couldn’t start a Critical GIS group, we would have loved to start a critical GIS speciality group. We value qualitative work 

UCGIS president elect- president in may, the next meeting will be on digital geog. Geo-humanities. Intersection of qualitative work and GIS. He will reach out, there will be awards for students. Limited to USGIS institutions, the awards. 

UCGIS- academic consortium of GIS, produced the body of knowledge. 

Will- be active seekers for people doing work that don’t think of themselves as digital geographies. Lets make the tent bigger. 

Craig- how many sessions this year can be described as qualitative… 
Should we have a facebook page.. 

Julie- 72 specialty groups… you can only join 6 groups… 

Will- can we sponsor field trips?? In DC? Who wants to plan a DC trip?? 

Jim - if we can going to be in DC, we can go to Amazon :) 

We can go visit data centers as a field trip

Great way to get non-academic people involved 

Sophia- Host something at USGS? 

Pre-conf rooms are not that expensive

In DC, there are co-working spaces, might be able to do it for free. 

Matt- “We’re cool” 


Heather- our mission statement “ We’re cool” 

Jim- 
Original Mission statement... 
our animal- sheep 
Our instrument - Z’tar 
Our sport- Botashi 

Matt- put the word out might be the only time we have a reception. 

Keynote panel will be an annual thing, the student board members will moderate it. Nick is moderate it tonight. 

Student board members pick the panel and ask questions… who do they want to invite. 

Jim is not a serious scholar. 





The GIT org… add link… 
Post charter on GIT 
